README.md, before:

# Overview

This application contain the following endpoints.
• GET /api/interest-rates (get a list of current interest rates)
• POST /api/mortgage-check (post the parameters to calculate for a mortgage check)

assumptions: 
. Saved interestRate or MortgageRates in database. Assuming we will receive this from customer. 

. Mortgage check request is Async for handling load.

. Not added any deployment setup.

. For Database used h2 database that can be changed to Postgres , oracle or any database as per our use case.

. To make production ready , need to add check style , jacoco for code coverage and check in pom xml.

. Assuming mortgage period with will be unique in mortgage_rate table.

. Mapper for request and response object is not included.
# Local setup

To build and run the application locally, you will need the following:

* [JDK 21](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/jdk17-archive-downloads.html)
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)
* H2 in memory database from intellij
* 
### Build

This can be done using the following:
Maven commands:
mvn clean compile
mvn install

### Database

The application requires following tables:
- **TESTDB**
Added a configuration in application property.
- run data.sql file before start of the application.
Refer to `src/test/resources/data.sql` for the initial database setup.

### Running the Application

To run the application, you can either use the below commands or the `Run App against Default` configuration in your
IDE:

First, navigate to the `src` directory:

run MortgageServiceApplication using default application.properties.

### API Documentation 
http://localhost:8086/v3/api-docs

Commit message:

Added json for some properties that can be monitored in Grafana

README.md, after:

# Overview

This application contain the following endpoints.
• GET /api/interest-rates (get a list of current interest rates)
• POST /api/mortgage-check (post the parameters to calculate for a mortgage check)

assumptions: 
. Saved interestRate or MortgageRates in database. Assuming we will receive this from customer. 

. Mortgage check request is Async for handling load.

. Not added any deployment setup.

. For Database used h2 database that can be changed to Postgres , oracle or any database as per our use case.

. To make production ready , need to add check style , jacoco for code coverage and check in pom xml.

. Assuming mortgage period with will be unique in mortgage_rate table.

. Mapper for request and response object is not included.
# Local setup

To build and run the application locally, you will need the following:

* [JDK 21](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/javase/jdk17-archive-downloads.html)
* [Maven](https://maven.apache.org/download.cgi)
* H2 in memory database from intellij
* 
### Build

This can be done using the following:
Maven commands:
mvn clean compile
mvn install

### Database

The application requires following tables:
- **TESTDB**
Added a configuration in application property.
- run data.sql file before start of the application.
Refer to `src/test/resources/data.sql` for the initial database setup.

### Running the Application

To run the application, you can either use the below commands or the `Run App against Default` configuration in your
IDE:

First, navigate to the `src` directory:

run MortgageServiceApplication using default application.properties.

or

run dockerfile

### Monitoring
Added actuator api to check the health, metrics and prometheus of the application.
http://localhost:8086/actuator/health
http://localhost:8086/actuator/metrics
http://localhost:8086/actuator/prometheus

### Prometheus and grafana integration
after running the app in container run:
docker-compose up -d
From generated metrics , save some properties in Mortgage-Dashboard.json and import it into grafana UI.
(I have copied one of the json in repo)
and open grafana dashboard using http://localhost:3000
Login admin /admin

upload the json to grafana dashboard .

select prometheus data source.

### API Documentation 
http://localhost:8086/v3/api-docs
